nessus/README.md, before:

# mundane.py

A modernized **TUI helper** to review Nessus plugin host files quickly and kick off focused checks with **nmap**, **NetExec**, or custom commands. Includes a one-step **wizard** to seed an export structure directly from a `.nessus` file.

---

## Requirements

- **Python 3.11+** (3.8+ may still work but is not the target)
- Install Python deps:
  ```bash
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```
  Uses: `rich`, `typer`, `pyperclip`, `colorama`, `loguru`
- Optional external tools (only when you run them):
  - `git` – used by the wizard to clone **NessusPluginHosts**
  - `nmap`
  - `nxc` / `netexec`
- Linux recommended. For clipboard copy you may need `xclip`, `xsel`, or `wl-copy`.

---

## Environment configuration (no config files required)

All runtime defaults are controlled via environment variables:

| Variable | Description | Default |
|---|---|---|
| `MUNDANE_LOG` | Log file path | `~/mundane.log` |
| `MUNDANE_DEBUG` | DEBUG logging when truthy (`1`, `true`, `on`) | off |
| `MUNDANE_PROMPT` | Enable confirmation prompts | on |
| `MUNDANE_SUDO_PREFLIGHT` | Run sudo preflight checks | on |

Example:
```bash
export MUNDANE_LOG="$PWD/mundane.log"
export MUNDANE_DEBUG=1
python mundane.py review
tail -f mundane.log
```

---

## Logging & diagnostics

- Prefers **loguru** with rotation/retention; automatically falls back to stdlib `logging` if unavailable or file sink creation fails.
- Parent directory is created for the log file.
- `_log_info/_log_debug/_log_error` shims keep the rest of the code backend‑agnostic.
- Global `sys.excepthook` logs unhandled exceptions (Rich still shows pretty tracebacks).
- `@log_timing` decorates key functions to log execution time at DEBUG level.

---

## Quick start

### 1) Seed exports from a `.nessus` (wizard)
Clone **NessusPluginHosts** and export plugin hostlists into `./nessus_plugin_hosts`:

```bash
python mundane.py wizard path/to/scan.nessus
# immediately start reviewing after export:
python mundane.py wizard path/to/scan.nessus --review
# customize clone/output locations:
python mundane.py wizard scan.nessus --repo-dir ./vendor/NessusPluginHosts --out-dir ./nessus_plugin_hosts
```

### 2) Review exports interactively
```bash
python mundane.py review --export-root ./nessus_plugin_hosts
```

---

## Features

- **Browse scans & severities** in Rich tables.
- **Preview plugin files** before acting (with a link to Tenable plugin details).
- **Paged views** with `[N]ext`, `[P]rev`, `[B]ack` navigation.
- **Grouped view** (`host:port,port`) or raw file view.
- **Clipboard copy** for any file or command.
- **Run tools** against hosts:
  - `nmap` (profiles and UDP handling supported)
  - `netexec` / `nxc`
  - **Custom templates** with placeholder substitution
- **Compare** plugin hostlists across severities.
- **Coverage/superset** analysis across files.
- **Bulk mark** reviewed files as `REVIEW_COMPLETE-...`.
- **Scan overview** summaries (totals, top ports, identical groups).
- **Progress indicators** for cloning, parsing, exporting, or running tools.
- **Registry-driven tool system** (nmap/netexec today; others can be added later).

---

## Commands (common)

```bash
# Wizard: seed exported plugin files from a .nessus scan (then optionally review)
python mundane.py wizard <scan.nessus> [--repo-dir DIR] [--out-dir DIR] [--review]

# Interactive review (main workflow)
python mundane.py review --export-root ./nessus_plugin_hosts [--no-tools]

# Summarize a scan directory
python mundane.py summary ./nessus_plugin_hosts/<ScanName> [--top-ports 10]

# Compare/group identical host:port combos across files
python mundane.py compare 4_Critical/*.txt

# Quick file preview
python mundane.py view nessus_plugin_hosts/<Scan>/<Severity>/<Plugin>.txt [--grouped]
```

---

## Custom command placeholders

When defining or executing custom commands, placeholders are substituted at runtime:

| Placeholder | Meaning |
|---|---|
| `{TCP_IPS}` | File with one IP per line |
| `{UDP_IPS}` | File with UDP targets |
| `{TCP_HOST_PORTS}` | `host:port1,port2,...` |
| `{PORTS}` | Comma‑separated ports |
| `{WORKDIR}` | Temporary workspace |
| `{RESULTS_DIR}` | Persistent results directory |
| `{OABASE}` | Base path for output artifacts |

**Examples**
```bash
httpx -l {TCP_IPS} -silent -o {OABASE}.urls.txt
nuclei -l {OABASE}.urls.txt -o {OABASE}.nuclei.txt
cat {TCP_IPS} | xargs -I{} sh -c 'echo {}; nmap -Pn -p {PORTS} {}'
```

---

## Architecture notes (Phases 1–6)

- **Canonical parsing**: one parser creates a `ParsedHostsPorts` model (stable host order, unique sorted ports, explicit `host:port` detection) with a small in‑process cache.
- **Data vs render separation**: `build_compare_data()` and `build_coverage_data()` compute pure data; rendering wrappers keep Rich output unchanged.
- **Tool registry**: `ToolSpec` (`builder: Callable[[dict], tuple[Any, dict]]`) with entries for `nmap` and `netexec`; legacy builders remain for backward compatibility.
- **Constants & helpers**: centralized constants; unified severity/label helpers (`_severity_color_name`, `_ansi_from_style`, `label()` + `cyan_label()`).
- **Sudo preflight & prompts**: both enabled by default via env‑driven settings.

---

## Tips

- Disable colors with `NO_COLOR=1` or in a dumb terminal (`TERM=dumb`).
- Not running as root without `sudo` may restrict UDP/NSE; you’ll be warned.
- On headless Linux without clipboard utilities, the script prints copy targets.
- Log rotation (~1 MB) keeps logs manageable.

---

## Directory layout (after wizard)

```
nessus_plugin_hosts/
  <ScanName>/
    4_Critical/
      193421_Apache_2.4.x___2.4.54_Authentication_Bypass.txt
      ...
    3_High/
    2_Medium/
    1_Low/
    0_Info/
scan_artifacts/
  <ScanName>/<Severity>/<PluginBase>/run-YYYYmmdd-HHMMSS.*
```

---

## License

This tool orchestrates local utilities and uses data produced by
[DefensiveOrigins/NessusPluginHosts](https://github.com/DefensiveOrigins/NessusPluginHosts).
Respect all dependencies’ licenses and your organization’s policies.

Commit message:

feat(metasploit): add CVE extraction and direct msfconsole execution

nessus/README.md, after:

# mundane.py

A modernized **TUI helper** to review Nessus plugin host files quickly and kick off focused checks with **nmap**, **NetExec**, or custom commands. Includes a one-step **wizard** to seed an export structure directly from a `.nessus` file.

---

## Requirements

- **Python 3.11+** (3.8+ may still work but is not the target)
- Install Python deps:
  ```bash
  pip install -r requirements.txt
  ```
  Uses: `rich`, `typer`, `pyperclip`, `colorama`, `loguru`, `requests`, `beautifulsoup4`
- Optional external tools (only when you run them):
  - `git` – used by the wizard to clone **NessusPluginHosts**
  - `nmap`
  - `nxc` / `netexec`
  - `msfconsole` – for Metasploit module searches
- Linux recommended. For clipboard copy you may need `xclip`, `xsel`, or `wl-copy`.

---

## Environment configuration (no config files required)

All runtime defaults are controlled via environment variables:

| Variable | Description | Default |
|---|---|---|
| `MUNDANE_LOG` | Log file path | `~/mundane.log` |
| `MUNDANE_DEBUG` | DEBUG logging when truthy (`1`, `true`, `on`) | off |
| `MUNDANE_PROMPT` | Enable confirmation prompts | on |
| `MUNDANE_SUDO_PREFLIGHT` | Run sudo preflight checks | on |

Example:
```bash
export MUNDANE_LOG="$PWD/mundane.log"
export MUNDANE_DEBUG=1
python mundane.py review
tail -f mundane.log
```

---

## Logging & diagnostics

- Prefers **loguru** with rotation/retention; automatically falls back to stdlib `logging` if unavailable or file sink creation fails.
- Parent directory is created for the log file.
- `_log_info/_log_debug/_log_error` shims keep the rest of the code backend‑agnostic.
- Global `sys.excepthook` logs unhandled exceptions (Rich still shows pretty tracebacks).
- `@log_timing` decorates key functions to log execution time at DEBUG level.

---

## Quick start

### 1) Seed exports from a `.nessus` (wizard)
Clone **NessusPluginHosts** and export plugin hostlists into `./nessus_plugin_hosts`:

```bash
python mundane.py wizard path/to/scan.nessus
# immediately start reviewing after export:
python mundane.py wizard path/to/scan.nessus --review
# customize clone/output locations:
python mundane.py wizard scan.nessus --repo-dir ./vendor/NessusPluginHosts --out-dir ./nessus_plugin_hosts
```

### 2) Review exports interactively
```bash
python mundane.py review --export-root ./nessus_plugin_hosts
```

---

## Features

- **Browse scans & severities** in Rich tables.
- **Preview plugin files** before acting (with a link to Tenable plugin details).
- **Paged views** with `[N]ext`, `[P]rev`, `[B]ack` navigation.
- **Grouped view** (`host:port,port`) or raw file view.
- **Clipboard copy** for any file or command.
- **CVE extraction** - View CVE identifiers for any plugin from Tenable plugin pages.
- **Metasploit module search** - Search for relevant Metasploit modules by CVE or description:
  - Automatically extracts CVEs and exploit descriptions from plugin pages
  - Generates `msfconsole` search commands for both CVEs and descriptions
  - Execute searches directly from the tool with confirmation prompts
- **Run tools** against hosts:
  - `nmap` (profiles and UDP handling supported)
  - `netexec` / `nxc`
  - **Custom templates** with placeholder substitution
- **Compare** plugin hostlists across severities.
- **Coverage/superset** analysis across files.
- **Bulk mark** reviewed files as `REVIEW_COMPLETE-...`.
- **Scan overview** summaries (totals, top ports, identical groups).
- **Progress indicators** for cloning, parsing, exporting, or running tools.
- **Registry-driven tool system** (nmap/netexec/metasploit today; others can be added later).

---

## Commands (common)

```bash
# Wizard: seed exported plugin files from a .nessus scan (then optionally review)
python mundane.py wizard <scan.nessus> [--repo-dir DIR] [--out-dir DIR] [--review]

# Interactive review (main workflow)
python mundane.py review --export-root ./nessus_plugin_hosts [--no-tools]

# Summarize a scan directory
python mundane.py summary ./nessus_plugin_hosts/<ScanName> [--top-ports 10]

# Compare/group identical host:port combos across files
python mundane.py compare 4_Critical/*.txt

# Quick file preview
python mundane.py view nessus_plugin_hosts/<Scan>/<Severity>/<Plugin>.txt [--grouped]
```

---

## Custom command placeholders

When defining or executing custom commands, placeholders are substituted at runtime:

| Placeholder | Meaning |
|---|---|
| `{TCP_IPS}` | File with one IP per line |
| `{UDP_IPS}` | File with UDP targets |
| `{TCP_HOST_PORTS}` | `host:port1,port2,...` |
| `{PORTS}` | Comma‑separated ports |
| `{WORKDIR}` | Temporary workspace |
| `{RESULTS_DIR}` | Persistent results directory |
| `{OABASE}` | Base path for output artifacts |

**Examples**
```bash
httpx -l {TCP_IPS} -silent -o {OABASE}.urls.txt
nuclei -l {OABASE}.urls.txt -o {OABASE}.nuclei.txt
cat {TCP_IPS} | xargs -I{} sh -c 'echo {}; nmap -Pn -p {PORTS} {}'
```

---

## Architecture notes (Phases 1–6)

- **Canonical parsing**: one parser creates a `ParsedHostsPorts` model (stable host order, unique sorted ports, explicit `host:port` detection) with a small in‑process cache.
- **Data vs render separation**: `build_compare_data()` and `build_coverage_data()` compute pure data; rendering wrappers keep Rich output unchanged.
- **Tool registry**: `ToolSpec` (`builder: Callable[[dict], tuple[Any, dict]]`) with entries for `nmap` and `netexec`; legacy builders remain for backward compatibility.
- **Constants & helpers**: centralized constants; unified severity/label helpers (`_severity_color_name`, `_ansi_from_style`, `label()` + `cyan_label()`).
- **Sudo preflight & prompts**: both enabled by default via env‑driven settings.

---

## Tips

- Disable colors with `NO_COLOR=1` or in a dumb terminal (`TERM=dumb`).
- Not running as root without `sudo` may restrict UDP/NSE; you’ll be warned.
- On headless Linux without clipboard utilities, the script prints copy targets.
- Log rotation (~1 MB) keeps logs manageable.

---

## Directory layout (after wizard)

```
nessus_plugin_hosts/
  <ScanName>/
    4_Critical/
      193421_Apache_2.4.x___2.4.54_Authentication_Bypass.txt
      ...
    3_High/
    2_Medium/
    1_Low/
    0_Info/
scan_artifacts/
  <ScanName>/<Severity>/<PluginBase>/run-YYYYmmdd-HHMMSS.*
```

---

## License

This tool orchestrates local utilities and uses data produced by
[DefensiveOrigins/NessusPluginHosts](https://github.com/DefensiveOrigins/NessusPluginHosts).
Respect all dependencies’ licenses and your organization’s policies.
